Go is a compiled language. 
Go is compiled to a form which runs on a single OS.
It is statically types language.
Go tool can run a file without precompiling
Compiled executables are OS-specific.
Applications have a statically linked runtime.
No external VM is needed.

Has some OOPS features- like you can definer custom interfaces. - custom types can implement one or more features. -  custom types can have member methods.-customs structs(data structures) can have member fields.
No type inhertiance in go.- no method or operator overloading. -structured exception handling(it just returns the error and you have to apply conditional logic to resolve it). -implicit numeric conversions.

Is desgined as a next-gen language for C.
Borrows syntaxes from C, Pascal, Modula, Oberon etc.
Tries to reduce the amount of typing.

It is case sensitive.- variables and package names are camelcase, exported funcs and fields have initial upper case characters. -line feed ends a statement with no semi-colon required.
semi-colon are part of the formal lang sepc- the lexer adds them as needed during compilation.
code blocks are wrapped with braces.
place starting brace on the same line as preceding statement.(else lexer will place a semi-colon leading to error)

built-in functions, members of builtin package - len(string) returns length of a string. - panic(error) stops execution, displays error message. - recover() manages behaviour of a panicking go routine. 

to run- go run filename.go


Go is statically types lang, meaning each var must be assigned to  a type and once assigned, it cant be changed. - implicit or explicit. 
Explicit menas direct setting. var anInteger int =42 and var aString string = "Hello."
Implicit means compiler infers the type from the initial value we gave. anInteger:=42 and aString:= "Hello". type is static and cant be changed.

types: bool, string, uint8 uint16 uint32 unint64 (unsigned), int8 int16 int32 int64. aliases: byte uint int unintptr, float32 float64, complex64 complex128.
data collections: Arrays Slices Maps structs
language organisation: Functions Interfaces Channels
data management: pointers 

fmt package implements formatted I/O with functions analogous to C's printf and scanf. 
Whenever you call print functions, you will get back 2 variables, a numeric value which is the length of the string in the number of characters and the second is an error object.
(You can recieve these by declaring variables in the beginning of the statement)


